DOCS-10770-X12-2.6-ESB (#1442)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: x12-edi/2.6/modules/ROOT/pages/x12-edi-connector-understand-edi-schema.adoc

= X12 EDI Connector 2.6 - Understanding the EDI Schema Language - Mule 4

X12 EDI Connector uses a YAML format called EDI Schema Language (ESL) to represent EDI schemas.
Basic ESLs define the structure of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) messages in terms of:

* structures, known as _transaction sets_ in X12 terminology

* groups, known as loops, in X12

* segments, composites, and elements

ESLs for the all xref:x12-edi-versions-x12.adoc[supported X12 versions] are included.
If you are using HIPAA, then a set of xref:x12-edi-versions-hipaa.adoc[HIPAA variations] of base X12 transaction sets are included.

You can customize X12 schema definitions to suit your data by defining an overlay schema. An overlay schema is a type of ESL that enables you to modify a base schema, such as an X12 4010 850 schema, with your specific conventions.
You don't need an overlay schema if you're using the structure defined by the standard, but most EDI exchanges modify the base definitions in an implementation convention.

> You can define your own schemas from scratch, or copy and edit a base X12 schema definition to suit your data as shown in the xref:x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[EDI Schema Language Reference].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define your own custom schemas, or copy and edit a base X12 schema definition to suit your data as shown in the xref:x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[EDI Schema Language Reference].
```
